---
layout: page
title: "About PSTU"
teaser: "Puget Sound Tenants Union is a base-building organization run by tenants who are tired of rising rents, evictions, and abusive landlords."
permalink: "/info/"
header:
  title: Puget Sound Tenants Union
  image_fullwidth: ryan-wilson-HkF6feHrGBE-unsplash.jpg
---

Housing is a human right, not a commodity to be traded on the market at the
expense of people. We want to stop the trifecta of landlords, city government,
and developers who profit from controlling our access to shelter by building
tenant power from the bottom up.

In the Puget Sound region, developer and landlord profits have been consistently
prioritized over our quality of life. Existing avenues for combating rising
rents, slumlord behavior, and evictions usually go through non-profit
organizations. While these organizations can provide important resources for
tenants, they’re unable to challenge the root of the problem that we face: the
subjugation of housing to the market. The only way we can end the exploitation
of everyone’s need for shelter is to get organized and make our demands heard
together.

We encourage tenants of private landlords and public housing to join us and
organize your buildings and communities. If you want to help lower rents, ensure
timely maintenance, end landlord harassment, or solve any other housing
issue—[get ahold of us](/contact/)!

## Landlordism is Unconscionable

Everyone has an innate need for shelter. Having a roof over our heads and space
to call our own is crucial for our physical and psychological safety, and
equitable access to humane housing is as much a human right as food, healthcare,
and freedom from physical violence. Landlords and developers exploit that basic
need to put money in their pockets. They can raise rents higher and higher and
treat their tenants like dirt, and no one can do anything about it alone. We
hand them most of our income and take their abuse not because they provide us
with value, but because they happened to have enough money to buy a whole
building.

No system can possibly be humane when the price we pay just to survive is
determined by the market. When landlords say “you may only keep your home if you
make more money every year and hand it over to me,” they force tenants to grind
themselves to the bone in service of capital. In return, the state—acting as the
strongarm of capitalism—rewards the landlord with property rights and legal
protections that give them ever more power over their tenants. And it ensures
that the alternatives, being unhoused or imprisoned, are horrific enough that
each tenant feels like they have no choice but to succumb.

## We Fight Back

Together, we don’t have to bend down before property owners. They may have more
power than any of us as individuals, but all they have is what they take from
us. Hand in hand, building by building, we are more powerful than they could
possibly be. Collective action such as rent striking and mass mobilization is
what landlords and developers fear because it builds enough power among tenants
to demand change, not just ask for it. Once tenants come together and realize
that as a group they have the power to dramatically improve their own lives,
more and more groups can link together to build ever more collective power.

PSTU is the link between those groups. We are made up of tenants who are
organizing buildings and we exist to help get new buildings organized and make
it easy for different tenant associations to work together to achieve goals
beyond a single building, like tenant-owned housing and an end to
gentrification. We’re focused on a bottom-up strategy for achieving our goals.
Change comes when those who are exploited gather enough collective power to
force an end to exploitation, not when we convince courts or elected officials
that it’s the right thing to do.

Anyone in the Puget Sound region who’s organizing your building or complex is
welcome to [reach out](/contact/) and join us, as long as you aren’t a landlord,
employer, or cop. PSTU has no room for people who use their wealth to profit
from others’ need to survive, or who violently enforce unjust laws.
